Climate Resilience Data Dashboard for India
Project Overview
This project is part of the India Health and Climate Resilience Fellowship (IHCRF) initiative. It's an interactive dashboard that visualizes climate-related data for specific regions in India, focusing on temperature trends, rainfall patterns, and extreme weather events.
Features

Region Selection: Users can choose specific regions in India to view localized data.
Date Range Selection: Allows filtering of data within a specified time frame.
Temperature Trends: Displays temperature data over time with a 30-day moving average trendline.
Rainfall Visualization: Shows rainfall data using bar charts.
Extreme Weather Events: Visualizes the occurrence of events like heatwaves, floods, and cyclones.
Basic Forecasting: Includes a simple forecasting function (currently using moving average method).

Tech Stack

Python
Pandas for data manipulation
Plotly for interactive visualizations
Dash for the web application framework

Setup and Installation

Clone this repository:
Copygit clone https://github.com/your-username/climate-resilience-dashboard.git
cd climate-resilience-dashboard

Install required packages:
Copypip install pandas plotly dash

Prepare your data:

Ensure you have a CSV file named climate_data.csv in the project directory.
The CSV should have columns for: date, region, temperature, rainfall, and extreme weather events (heatwaves, floods, cyclones).


Run the application:
Copypython app.py

Open a web browser and go to http://127.0.0.1:8050/ to view the dashboard.

Usage

Select a region from the dropdown menu to view data for that specific area.
Use the date range picker to focus on a particular time period.
Interact with the graphs to zoom, pan, or hover over data points for more information.

Future Improvements

Implement more sophisticated forecasting models (e.g., ARIMA, Prophet).
Add geospatial visualizations to show regional data on maps.
Incorporate more climate-related data sources and parameters.
Enhance the user interface for better accessibility and responsiveness.
Implement data caching and optimization for larger datasets.
Add user authentication for personalized experiences.
Create an API to allow other applications to access the data.

Contributing
We welcome contributions to this project! Please feel free to submit issues, fork the repository and send pull requests!
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE.md file for details.
Acknowledgments

India Health and Climate Resilience Fellowship (IHCRF) for initiating this project.
All contributors and researchers working on climate resilience in India.

Contact
For any queries regarding this project, please contact IHCRF at info@ihcrf.in
